Hi I'm  Miss Abacus welcome back to my channel today we are going to learn how to read numbers on an abacus so before learning this you need to know how to write numbers okay I'll give you some tips for writing number, for my experience a lot of little kids they writing number you know because kids like copy mirror things right ? so they always write number backward like 2 3 even 7 and then they always confuse 15 and 50, 13 and 31 right ? so I want to give you some tips to write the numbers correctly and neatly okay only two rules : top to bottom, left to right okay let's try the number here, one, top to bottom, right? two, left to right, top to bottom, left to right three, left to right, easy ? four, top to bottom, left to right, top to bottom five, top to bottom, left to right six, you just have a circle here, seven, left right, top to bottom, for the eight, nine and zero, you just follow like you writing the S, so from the right upper corner here e-i-g-h-t only one stroke, nine zero so that's how to write one through zero so now you know how to count 1 to 10 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 so 10 is one more this is ten right ? after you know how to write the numbers then we can start counting and reading numbers on the abacus, first, you see the bar here this bar divides the beads into two sections one is upper section the other is lower section so for the upper one the upper bead each bead worth five we call 5-unit bead, for the bottom each rod has 4 beads each bead worth one so it's 1-unit bead so we count the numbers just by the beads touch this bar so this number nothing touch the bar, it's zero, and first we need to set a value place so I put the black dot every 3 rods this one I set this one as ones place, of course you can set anywhere you have a lot of black dots on your own abacus so usually I would suggest you use the center one set the center one the black dot as ones place so of course next one is tens hundreds thousands ten thousands and so on so we can start counting now, okay, the bottom bead is one, the upper bead is five right ? so one, two,  three, four, Wow~ so easy ! you can read this number is four how about five ? upper bead is five so five is like that, how about six ? of course one more bottom that's five six seven eight nine oh we used all the beads on the ones place, so how about the ten? okay you don't know ten? do you know how to write ten right ? is that one zero ? yes ~ one zero that's ten, so easy~ you just count the beads and you know the numbers, how about this one now, if you don't know just write the down, okay you see all  zero here right ? the first bead you see it's one here, second rod is two so this number is 12 okay let's challenge few more problems what's this number ? okay, this is the first one we see the beads here from the top five~ come from here five six seven so this is seven, the second number one two three, so it's 73 , okay so I will have homework for you to practice number to beads, beads to number okay, for the younger kids maybe you need to do up to double digits, for those you feel comfortable just go ahead you can do as many as you'd like so let's try one three digits number here what is this number ? one two one two three four this is top bead so it's five so it's 245 is that easy? okay, how about try this one, Oh~ a lot of top beads right ? okay, the first one, five, second, five six seven eight third number, five six, five six seven, so this number is five thousand eight hundred and sixty-seven so that's all for today I'm going to show you the homework so this week we have five pages but you can do only three of them, if your child still young you only need to do up to double digits, of course welcome you challenge all pages, so the first page will be just beads to number like that you see the beads then write down the number on the bottom then I will give you second page that's one and two digits mix beads and numbers so you when you see the beads write a number on the top when you see the number on the top just make a circle on the bottom, also next one is three digits, so this is optional if your child can do it you're just trying to this one also the fourth one, mix two and three and four digits number beads to number, number to beads then I also give you a blank one. so you can make as many as you want the copy the blank one then you make up the problems for your child to practice, so this is all the homework, so if you like my video, please share and subscribe and turn on notification, so you will get notified when my new video is uploaded, thank you for watching, see you next time!
